For successful trading, you need to be able to identify meaningful and important
support and resistance levels for your Stock in Play so you can trade off of them.
There are many ways to find these levels and there are many types of support
and resistance.
I’ve found over the years that many traders love to draw diagonal trend lines.
They’re the most common type of price levels that traders will identify and
draw. But I personally believe the market doesn’t know diagonal price levels. In
my opinion, diagonal trend lines are subjective and very self-deceptive. You can
draw a trend line virtually anywhere and in virtually any way. For example, if
you’re in a mood to buy, you can draw your trend line in a way that shows a
steep upward movement, while another trader might look at the same chart and
draw another trend line with a different slope. If you feel like shorting, you’ll
eventually “recognize” and draw a downward trend line for yourself.
I am personally skeptical of trend lines but I know that they are very common
among traders. In my opinion most of the trend lines come with some degree of
wishful thinking as traders will find themselves identifying bullish or bearish
trends depending on whether they’re in a mood to buy or sell.


A support is a price level where buyers entered the trade or short sellers covered
their shorts with enough force to keep prices from going any lower.
A resistance is a price level where sellers entered the market or old buyers
dumped their shares with enough force to keep prices from going any higher.
Support and resistance levels are very important reference points because so
many traders recognize them and believe in their significance. It’s herd mentality
101. If enough traders believe in the significance of a support level, traders will
not buy until the price reaches that support level. In addition, short sellers won’t
cover until that level. Why would they, when they can buy or cover at lower
prices?
Similarly, if all traders know there is a resistance level nearby, they will start
selling at that level because they are afraid the price might bounce back before
they can sell for a profit. Short sellers will also start selling at the resistance level
in the hope of a price drop.
It is at these levels that the balance of power between the buyers and the sellers
will usually shift. For example, if the buyers are aggressively bidding up and
causing prices to rise, and all of a sudden many traders are willing to
aggressively sell for less than the last price, thereby causing an immediate price
reversal, the price level at which the market stopped is now a resistance level. It
really doesn't matter why the balance of power shifted from the buyers to the
sellers. There could be all sorts of reasons behind what caused the price to
reverse. What is really important is that traders will remember that the market
reversed at that particular price level. As a result, moving forward, that price will
have a degree of significance in the minds of traders.
If the market reversed very strongly the last time that prices approached this
level, there will be many traders who will think it will probably reverse again
and they may very well act based on this belief.
In this book, I will teach you how to identify support and resistance on
candlestick charts. Once support and resistance are established and identified,
they can be very helpful for your trading plan during the market hours.
You may have heard that old support becomes resistance and old resistance
becomes support. This market insight is valid, but do remember that when you